Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture what we want to do is start putting our objects together and making sure that their
Modularity is actually what we think it is.
So this is just going to be very quick and dirty it's not going to be the full building or anything
along those lines but it is going to be is just a check to see how things go together.
Do we need to make any adjustments at this stage.
What you don't want to do is check it after you've made 15 things check it almost each and every time.
One thing that we've not really been paying much detail to is the level of detail of these particular
items.
So currently we've got a window which if we have everything turned off this basic window here could
quite easily be level of detail.
However when we add some extra bits and bobs to it it becomes level of detail B or even C if you think
that's more than enough detail I'll probably add a couple of other bits around here but that's a good
level of simple detail and we could start adding materials to it at any points as well.
But for the moment it's just the modelling that we want to focus on.
Now there are a couple of options we're going to have to do some duplication here and setting things
up but we don't want to ruin our original scene.
So at the moment if we have a look at the top right we have an option for scenes and there's a dropdown
on the left where you can select to various scenes and then on the right there is an option to create
a new scene.
We click on that we get four options.
The first two new and copy settings.
Well when we hover over it it tells us what we do but both of those will be empty with nothing else
in them.
The linked copy in full copy are the ones that we want to have a look at.
Now linked the collections from the current scene kind of a shallow copy or a full copy if we go to
linked copy we now unseen 0 0 1 and just like when you're naming your objects naming your scenes is
also very important so let's call this building test so we know what it is and let's call this one export
file because everything's going to be built around the origin making sure all works.
Export file we'll export seen something like that.
It really doesn't matter what it's called as long as we understand what it is and it's clear what it
is.
So this is the building test.
So if I was to go ahead and let's say grab all of these objects the window breaks the window sill and
the window and just apply the modifiers on them the great thing about applying these modifiers is it
means that it's solidified into a mesh object which means that we can get rid of the curve because it's
no longer necessary and it means that we can grab the window the window breaks and the window sill and
join them altogether.
Now there's some extra problems with this.
The first one being it's just inherited the active selected its name but we have a looking wireframe
we've got a lot of geometry inside our model.
Now that's not necessarily a problem.
A lot of game engines have what's called occlusion so rendering occlusion so it won't render those vertices
that are inside.
But the problem is it still has the calculate not surrender them in the first place.
And on top of that when it comes to texturing later on this is a lot of potentially wasted u v space
which is going to be a lot in this particular case because there's a hell of a lot of geometry inside
this model.
So we don't really want that we just want more faces and a lot of cleanup can be done here relatively
quickly by just selecting all of the faces on this side and deleting them.
However we should try and probably and avoid that in the first place.
But as a first pass this is absolutely fine.
See now our objects is a single mesh object.
It's going to be really easy to duplicate everywhere.
However if I go back to my export scene you can see that the window is actually a copy of that.
So what we have just done is actually destructive.
We can no longer edit this.
Now that may or may not be an issue for you it is an issue for me.
So in this particular case I'm going to go ahead and take a full copy instead and I'm going to go to
file and revert my file back to how it was right at the beginning.
Then I'm going to go ahead and call this export scene because I know that's going to be I'm then going
to go ahead and create a new full copy there we go everything comes in looking good.
OK.
That looks a mess in places as well.
Yeah.
Export season 0 0 1 Nope this is going to be my building's scene so everything has come across including
the things that I had hidden so go ahead and delete that now.
But if I go ahead and do what I did before with the window with its curve and inside there it's got
these obviously they now have unique names that's a clue there that they are unique and they're not
shared data with the other sets and because this is a building scene I do actually want to put them
together just for my own sanity.
Otherwise I'm gonna have to right click and select a hierarchy here to make sure that all of those objects
are selected.
But before we join them we do need to remember to apply any modifiers because if we don't apply modifiers
wherever we join our mesh objects to it will just inherit those modifiers from before.
So I'm going to hold down control to select these extra ones with the end one being window control and
J now have things called Windows 0 0 1 and if I get to my export scene I've not lost any of that detail
from before.
Okay.
So it's going to take me a few moments just to tidy up everything here the wall is absolutely fine the
doorway now the doorway itself.
This is where I can make a decision on style I'm actually going to go with my bricks themselves I like
the way that they work so I'm going to go ahead and apply those and then I can come in here and basically
delete these other bits for the moment because they no longer have an impact on my seeing the door mirror
again that that empty does not have an impact the window curve doesn't have an impact and the archway
bricks and the door wave themselves can now be joined together.
Remember to have your cursor over the 3D window when you do those keyboard shortcuts.
Otherwise they won't work.
Okay.
So we're almost there.
We've got this big slab on the floor that's our image I'm going to hide that's out of the way as well.
And I'm just going to mock up a simple room.
Now we do need a floor.
I want a floor so let's go ahead shift an S cursor to the world origin.
I'm going to add in a plain in edit mode I'm gonna scale it by 2 so it's another four by four grid I'm
going to add a modifier which would just be solidify and set that's a point two.
Okay so that's just the floor piece and fortunately is solidified in the right direction so we don't
need to do much else.
Okay.
The origin of this piece and its name its probably just called plain at the moment let's call it a floor
let's put it nested within the building.
That's good.
Okay.
I like that.
Let's change the position of the origin for its shift this cursor to selected into object mode sets
origin to the 3d cursor and then we'll move it to 0 0.
Okay.
Now one of the things to bear in mind is because we are using the origin as the way of positioning you've
got to imagine everything having a front and a back to it.
So here for instance what I can do is on the wall space which is nice and plain and simple and go to
my material settings here gets my materials and I'm going to have a back and a front or an in and an
out so material another material to materials I'm going to call one out and one in.
Now why am I doing this.
Well it become clear when we actually get to modifying and building our scene.
So I'm just gonna make this one here no let's just make it a darker color so outside it's darker inside
is lighter.
Absolutely fine and I can share these materials on everything says go into edit mode select one of the
walls I'm going to call this the in Wall sign.
So this is just the face there.
And then with select the other face of my wall and a sign that the out color.
Okay I'm going to hide the out the way I'm going to select my window and hide the others as well I'm
going to go into edit mode.
I'm gonna select these two faces here sign them in with these two faces here and sign them out immaterial
material sign it out.
Make sure you click on a sign.
Those are all assigned.
What else do we need to do.
Well the floor does matter.
There's no in and out for that but just this doorway here says go into edit mode.
So like this face here new material.
Sign it's in and again here.
This face new material a sign it's the outer material.
Click the sign and we should has that been assigned.
Let's just make sure oh who's changed the color of out
here we go dark and light.
Make sure that applies on the other dark and light
dark and light.
Perfect.
Okay.
So the reason why of color coded them like that is now we have our simple mesh objects that we can rearrange.
I can start making myself a building.
So let's start with a rough floor plan here.
So in object mode I'm going to select my floor piece here and look at it from the top and I'm just going
to use Alton D so if I make any other
so if I make any other changes to my model I can easily apply them.
I can hold down control and snap if I wanted to or I could just turn on snapping and this is where absolute
grids snap may be really useful.
The reason why I've created everything fall by fall.
Well it's certainly snap perfectly within the grid.
And that won't happen unless you have absolute grid snap turned on.
Okay.
And I'm going to do the same here on a duplicate scan make it a little bit of a long room maybe wave.
How about the shape of a cross.
That's absolutely fine.
I don't want to do much more than that simply for my own sanity more than anything else.
So then we have a window here.
Remember we had an inside and an outside.
Now look at how overlaps the floor space here.
We don't necessarily want that in fact this floor piece here.
I'm going to duplicate one more and pop it on the outside so let's start with this window and just move
it out of the way
G why pull it down there for a second if we can pop that right at the very end as well.
Notice how that name makes the wall itself.
Notice how that all make the room four by four.
But when it comes to actually snapping.
If I was to duplicate that again and rotate its on its z axis by minus 90.
If it's the room perfectly.
However if I was to duplicate it again and try and plop it in it would kind of match up perfectly here
but it infringes on the room.
So once again rotating on the z axis by 180 will enable us to put it in the right location and look
at that.
Now the floor is perfect and everything that's on the inside is supposed to be on the inside.
Okay where's all standard wall piece.
Let's have a couple of wall pieces in here as well.
If you're gonna watch me now just going to speed up the video.
Ever so slightly.
I'm just moving things around.
You're not gonna miss much.
So rotate this one by 90 on the z axis.
Okay so there we go we can see that I flipped round into a vertical view so I could see my world just
a little bit better.
Yeah I'm happy for some reason I've forgotten to put in a wall piece just here as well.
Remember in order to see these property you're going to have to be in material.
I think I must've just moved it so duplicate Perfect.
Okay so before we crack on I just need to rotate this around don't I as well.
Before we crack on that one of the things we need to have a brief look at here is the fact that whilst
we've managed to snap everything there and we've got the wrong look we've got the wrong origin point
for this particular model should really be in the corner here and we can see it's misaligned because
of that.
So let's sort that's out now.
That's well actually I'll just sort it out and the main model over here in the export scene.
Otherwise it's gonna be so easy to get.
So with the doorway selected got the lower corner.
Oh case of the doorway does have the right origin point by the looks of it it just happens to be that
when we joined everything together it ended up inheriting some other origin point.
Absolutely fine.
Just need something.
Something to watch out for.
Okay so we built our Building up here.
Looks pretty awesome.
We could even have a look at it in rendered mode if you really want to see how light and shadow will
change.
You know if you know if you went ahead grab this light source here and popped it behind one of the windows
how it the shadows look coming in through the windows lower down as well.
Lots of fun.
That can be had here and of course if you're playing with lights like that I would very much recommend
using cycles rather than evey just as the first pass.
And of course putting a roof on it so there's no environmental leaking into the scene or indeed if you
go to the world properties and turn the color down to black then we are just looking at the lights that's
been produced by this point light source.
So in this particular case if we were changing it over to cycles switch over to the GP use uses a bit
quicker.
And we could see that that's got a completely different look to it.
In fact one of the things that would be brilliant is switching over to flying mode.
If we go to the view menu and go to navigation scroll down here I don't like fly but I do like walk.
We can then use the w a SD keys to move around the scene and we can even turn on gravity as well.
We'll see that that's the tab key I could fall down and now I can walk around my scene and lets it render.
Of course your mileage will vary on how quick that renders as well but we start to get a feel of how
the level might look by just walking around in Blender.
However this is the main crux.
Why have we assembled it like this.
Well now we can start to notice few potential issues because we haven't modeled any corner pieces.
When we go ahead and put these together they slot together and overlap in these areas here on the inside
edges.
And if it matters which it may not do we end up with these gaps where it doesn't.
And the same is true of the floor.
But remember in a game if you're never seeing the outside of an object you probably find you wouldn't
even have these faces here would just delete them altogether.
But in this particular case we want the option of perhaps looking on the outside so we will have to
model some corner pieces to slot in whether it's on the inside all the outside.
Now just bear in mind when you do that sort of thing.
If you do that sort of thing you'll need to bear in mind if you add in a two by two piece that suddenly
your four by four pieces on the floor won't work very well.
Or have the potential to not work as well as they could do.
Now these wall pieces here are very bland at the moment but they consume be spruced up with a couple
of textures which will get texturing really soon but it is really important to test your models out
and make sure things are working as expected.
The big issue that I have currently is these inside walls.
These inside walls here you can see the shading this horrible Z fighting that will look horrendous in
a game and you've probably seen it even in triple-A games from time to time.
You just get a bit of geometry intersecting and you have this horrible hashed effect where it can't
decide which one of the surfaces it needs to render.
In this particular case this is this really stands out as a good example of what not to do because it's
got it in these four corners here.
This really does accentuated.
It won't look so bad in some of the other rendered modes but it could potentially cause you a real headache
when rendering.
And the last thing you'd want to do is render out a scene or think your your models are absolutely fine
only to find that later they're not in you've got to make a ton of changes.
Now's the time to catch those issues and solve them.
Okay so that's it for this lecture I'm really looking forward to your mock ups your designs seeing how
you're putting things together.
Feel free to play with your design and come up with some new ones.
Really looking forward to seeing your work share in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next
lecture.